Add Spring Boot migration course lab guides (#397)
moderneinc/moderne-docs: docs/hands-on-learning/spring-boot-migration/module-1-migration-assessment.md

<figure>
  ![](../../user-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/assets/recipe-welcome-modal.png)
  <figcaption>_Welcome modal_</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  ![](../../user-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/assets/new-recipe-menu.gif)
  <figcaption>_New recipe menu_</figcaption>
</figure>

3. Enter the name `Try Spring Boot 4 Upgrade` and save.

<figure>
  ![](./assets/try-spring-boot-4.png)
  <figcaption>_New recipe modal_</figcaption>
</figure>

4. Mouse over the root node in the recipe list and click the `+` button.

<figure>
  ![](../../user-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/assets/list-recipe-details.gif)
  <figcaption>_Add recipes from the recipe list_</figcaption>
</figure>

5. Mouse over the root node in the recipe list and click the `+` button. and now search for `Migrate to Spring Boot 4.0` (`io.moderne.java.spring.boot4.UpgradeSpringBoot_4_0`) and select it.
6. Click `Add recipe`.

<figure>
  ![](./assets/try-spring-boot-4.png)
  <figcaption>_Add 'Migrate to Spring Boot 4.0' recipe_</figcaption>
</figure>

> 7. Click the `+` next to the root node in the recipe list again and search for `Verify compilation` (`io.moderne.compiled.verification.VerifyCompilation`) this time. Click `Add recipe` to add it.

Reviewer: I think there was a Blog post about this, cannot find it. Could be great to link here.

Author: You mean for "Verify compilation"? It's mentioned here: https://www.moderne.ai/blog/understanding-openrewrite-beyond-the-myths#toc-3

Either way, I'm going to link to the docs page...

<figure>
  ![](./assets/try-spring-boot-4-custom-recipe.png)
  <figcaption>_Custom recipe to run Spring Boot migration and then verify compilation_</figcaption>
</figure>

> #### Step 3: Run and review the migration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Step 3: Run the recipe and review the migration
```

> 1. Run the recipe against the org by clicking the `Dry Run` button above the recipe list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the recipe against the organization by clicking the `Dry Run` button above the recipe list.
```

2. Open the change tree and click into a few files to review. Notice in particular the failures highlighted in the diffs by yellow squiggly lines.
3. Take a few minutes to review the failures and note missing or incompatible classes and dependencies. 

Common blockers include:

   * Incompatible build tool versions, plugins, or inconsistent configuration
   * Third-party dependencies that are incompatible, no longer exist, or have moved
   * Generated code that is tied to older Java or Spring APIs

>    * Dependencies between repositories in this set that need to be built in order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Inter-repository dependencies that need to be built in a specific order
```

You will likely see a few recurring failure patterns:

* Missing "Q" classes from QueryDSL code generation (for example, `QOrder`, `QInventory`)
* Test compile errors caused by changes in the Spring Boot test API or older JUnit versions
* Missing managed dependency versions caused by a Spring Boot starter being moved, replaced, or some particular functionality being deprecated or removed (for example, `spring-cloud-starter-zipkin` no longer managed by Spring Boot 4)

These are common migration speed bumps. The rest of the workshop is structured to handle them methodically.

<figure>
  ![](./assets/build-failure-querydsl.png)

>   <figcaption>_One example of an compilation error is caused by the QueryDSL code generator._</figcaption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>_One example of a compilation error is caused by the QueryDSL code generator._</figcaption>
```

</figure>

:::tip

> Doing a migration dry run followed by the `Verify compilation` recipe can be a useful assessment step to give you a fast map of likely obstacles and risk areas before you invest in the actual upgrade. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A migration dry run plus the `Verify compilation` recipe gives you a quick picture of what will break before you start the real work.
```

:::

## Exercise 1-2: Run code insight recipes

### Goals for this exercise

* Identify Java versions and build tooling in use

> * Discover current Spring Boot versions across the portfolio

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Discover current Spring Boot versions across your repositories
```

* Find `javax.*` usage hotspots and code generators

### Steps

#### Step 1: Plan a Java migration

> 1. From the Marketplace, search for and select `Plan a Java version migration` (`org.openrewrite.java.migrate.search.PlanJavaMigration`).

Reviewer: Think so too, we should do this eveywhere.

3. After the recipe run, click on the `Data tables` tab. Then download and open the `Java version migration plan` data table as a CSV or Excel file.

<figure>
  ![](./assets/java-version-migration-plan-data-table.png)
  <figcaption>_Download the 'Java version migration plan' data table_</figcaption>
</figure>

:::note
You won't see any diff results when running this recipe. It only generates data tables that you can access from the `Data tables` tab.
:::

This helps you confirm the baseline Java versions and build tooling in use so you know what you are starting from. For this example, you'll notice we're using Java 8 and Maven across the board. 

#### Step 2: Inspect Spring Boot versions

1. From the Marketplace, search for and select `Dependency insight for Gradle and Maven` (`org.openrewrite.java.dependencies.DependencyInsight`).
2. Configure the options:
   - **Group pattern:** `org.springframework.boot`
   - **Artifact pattern:** `spring-boot`
   - **Scope:** `runtime`
3. Click `Dry run` and wait for the recipe run to complete. Now open the `Dependencies in use` data table and download the CSV.

> 4. On the `Visualizations` tab, run the `Dependency usage visualization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. On the `Visualizations` tab, run the `Dependency usage visualization`.
```

#### Step 4: Locate code generators (QueryDSL)

Code generators like QueryDSL are often the hardest blockers because they can emit code that is tightly coupled to older Java and Spring APIs.

1. From the Marketplace, search for and select `Find Maven plugins` (`org.openrewrite.maven.search.FindPlugin`).
2. Configure the options:
   - **Group ID:** `com.mysema.maven`
   - **Artifact ID:** `apt-maven-plugin`
3. Click `Dry run`.
4. Open the `SourcesFileResults` data table and note which repos use QueryDSL.

You should see four services that are using QueryDSL as part of their persistence layer.

:::tip
Other useful code insight recipes you may want to explore later: [`FindInternalJavaxApis`](https://docs.openrewrite.org/recipes/java/migrate/search/findinternaljavaxapis), [`FindDeprecatedUses`](https://docs.openrewrite.org/recipes/java/search/finddeprecateduses), and [`RelocatedDependencyCheck`](https://docs.openrewrite.org/recipes/java/dependencies/relocateddependencycheck).
:::

## Exercise 1-3: Capture a DevCenter baseline

### Goals for this exercise

> * Record the starting point for Java and Spring Boot versions

Author: The truth is this DevCenter dashboard will never change because the upgrade isn't happening on the platform - the local DevCenter dashboard they create at the end can still be compared to this one live on the platform.

I'll change the word "record" to "see" or something and mention they can come back to compare later.
